---
title: "International Relations Research with R"
categories:
  - Academic Research
tags:
  - R
  - software
  - International Relations
  - research
---

I have been using R for research on international relations (IR) for about 10 years. One of the greatest strengths of R is its vibrant community of developers, which has contributed a staggering number of packages bringing specialized methods and data manipulation tools to the language. Navigating this vast sea of packages can be difficult, however, particularly given that many have overlapping functionality. In this post I will discuss some of the packages and approaches that I have found to be most useful, with a particular focus on the unique challenges of IR data. This is intended as a note to my future self as much as anything, but hopefully others will find it useful.

## IR Data Tools

I strongly recommend beginning the process of dataset construction with an empty frame of all the geographic units and time periods we wish to include in an analysis. This will help us keep track of missing values and avoid gaps in our temporal coverage that could cause problems if we try to use time series operators like lags. The [`states`](https://github.com/andybega/states) package makes it very easy to create a list of states and various units of time using the `state_panel` command. The `sfind` command is also very useful for looking up country codes. I haven't used the [`peacesciencer`](https://github.com/svmiller/peacesciencer) package as it is very new, but it appears to provide significantly expanded functionality with the ability to create not only country-year datasets, but directed and undirected dyad-years. It can also seamlessly merge in several Correlates of War and related datasets. 

Once you have your frame of cases, you should use 'left joins' that preserve all the rows in the first dataset and keep only rows from the second dataset that match a row in the first. Using the `dplyr` package, one could do something like this: `left_join(original_dataframe, new_dataset, by = c("countryid", "year"))`. Unfortunately there is not a universal standard country ID system. Fortunately, the  [`countrycode`](https://github.com/vincentarelbundock/countrycode) package provides for easy conversion between all of the most common identifier systems.

## IR Datasets

- WDI
- pwt
- unvotes
- subX
- UCDP?
- WVS?

## Other Data Tools

- sjmisc
- tidyverse
- haven
- data.table
- fst
- tsibble

## Visualization

- ggplot2
- plotly
- sjPlot

## Analysis

- fixest / bife / survival::clogit
- ggeffect
- coeftest / multiwaycov

## Output

- modelsummary